add v6.5.1 release notes (#12809)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.5.1.md

## 改进提升

+ TiDB

    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > # DB operations)* Support specifying the SQL script executed upon TiDB cluster initialization [#35624](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35624) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)

        TiDB 集群初次启动时，可通过命令行参数 `--initialize-sql-file` 指定执行的 SQL 脚本。该功能可用于修改系统变量的值、创建用户或分配权限等。更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tidb-configuration-file.md#initialize-sql-file-从-v660-版本开始引入)。

    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> TiDB)- Clear expired region cache regularly to avoid memory leak and performance degradation [#40461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40461) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
    - 添加 `-proxy protocol fallbackable` 选项，让 TiDB 可以处理客户端 IP 在 proxy 协议允许的 IP 列表中的原始连接。[#41409](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41409) @[blacktear23](https://github.com/blacktear23)
    - 改进了 memory tracker 的准确度 [#40900](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40900) [#40500](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40500) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40900

Author: ```suggestion
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
```

    - 改进了 memory tracker 的准确度 [#40900](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40900) [#40500](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40500) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 当 Plan Cache 无法生效时通过 Warning 返回原因 [#40210](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40210) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 条件优化器在进行越界估算时的策略 [#39011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39011) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

+ TiKV

    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support starting TiKV on a CPU with less than 1 core [#13586](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13586) [#13752](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13752) [#14017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14017) @[andreid-db](https://github.com/andreid-db)
    - 提高unified read pool的线程上限至CPU vCore的10倍 [#13690](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13690) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
    - 延长resolved-ts.advance-ts-interval到20s， 从而节省跨域流量 [#14100](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14100) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

> 

Author: ```suggestion

+ TiFlash

    - 显著提升 TiFlash 在大数据量下的启动速度 [#6395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6395) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)
```

## 错误修复

+ TiDB

    - (dup: release-6.1.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the [`pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit-new-in-v600) configuration item does not take effect for point-get queries [#39928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39928) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - (dup: release-6.1.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `INSERT` or `REPLACE` statements might panic in long session connections [#40351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40351) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that `auto analyze` causes graceful shutdown to take a long time [#40038](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40038) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that data race might occur during DDL ingestion [#40970](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40970) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that data might be inconsistent with the index when a unique index is created in the ingest mode [#40464](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40464) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that a unique index might still produce duplicate data in some cases [#40217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40217) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiDB panics when adding a unique index [#40592](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40592) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that some truncate operations cannot be blocked by MDL when truncating the same table concurrently [#40484](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40484) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that TiDB cannot restart after global bindings are created for partition tables in dynamic trimming mode [#40368](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40368) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
    - (dup: release-6.1.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that reading data using the "cursor read" method might return an error because of GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

>     - Fix the issue that `EXECUTE` is missing in the result of `SHOW PROCESSLIST` [#41156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41156) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `EXECUTE` information is null in the result of `SHOW PROCESSLIST` [#41156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41156) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix the issue that when `globalMemoryControl` is killing a query, the `KILL` operation might not end [#41057](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41057) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic after `indexMerge` encounters an error [#41047](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41047) [#40877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40877) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue that the `ANALYZE` statement might be terminated by `KILL` [#41825](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41825) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - Fix the issue that gorountine leak might occur in `indexMerge` [#41545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41545) [#41605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41605) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

>     - Fix the issue of potential wrong results when comparing unsigned `TINYINT`/`SMALLINT`/`INT` with `DECIMAL`/`FLOAT`/`DOUBLE` that is smaller than `0` [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of potential wrong results when comparing unsigned `TINYINT`/`SMALLINT`/`INT` values with `DECIMAL`/`FLOAT`/`DOUBLE` values smaller than `0` [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall)
```

>     - 修复“show processlist”信息中未显示“execute”语句的问题 [#41156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41156) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复了 `globalMemoryControl ` 在 kill query 时可能会遇上 kill 不结束的问题 [#41057](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41057) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复了 `indexMerge` 遇到错误之后可能会导致 TiDB crash 的问题 [#41047](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41047) [#40877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40877) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
>     - 修复 `analyze` 语句可能会被 kill 的问题 [#41825](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41825) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
>     - 修复了 `indexMerge` 中可能会出现 goroutine 泄露的问题 [#41545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41545) [#41605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41605) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
>     - 修复了 `unsigned tinyint/smallint/int` 和小于 0 的 `decimal/float/double` 比较时结果可能出错的问题 [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall)
>     - 修复了开启 `tidb_enable_reuse_chunk` 后可能会 memory leak 的问题 [#40987](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40987) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
>     - 修复时区使用可能导致数据索引不一致问题 [#40710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40710) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - 修复 batch cop 执行过程 scan detail 信息不准确的问题 [#41582](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41582) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 修复 cop 并发度上限不受限制的问题 [#41134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41134) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 修复 cursour read 中 statement context 被错误 cache 的问题 [#39998](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39998) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - Clear stale region cache periodically to avoid memory leak and performance degradation [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
>     - 修复对包含 `year <cmp> const` 查询使用 Plan Cache 时可能出错的问题 [#41628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41628) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复 `SHOW PROCESSLIST` 信息中未显示 `EXECUTE` 语句的问题 [#41156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41156) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复了 `globalMemoryControl` 在终止查询时可能会遇上 `kill` 不结束的问题 [#41057](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41057) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复了 `indexMerge` 遇到错误后可能会导致 TiDB 崩溃的问题 [#41047](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41047) [#40877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40877) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - 修复 `ANALYZE` 语句可能会被 `KILL` 终止的问题 [#41825](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41825) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - 修复了 `indexMerge` 中可能会出现 goroutine 泄露的问题 [#41545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41545) [#41605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41605) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复了无符号的 `TINYINT`、无符号的 `SMALLINT` 或无符号的 `INT` 和小于 `0` 的 DECIMAL、FLOAT 或 DOUBLE 类型比较时，结果可能出错的问题 [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall)
    - 修复了开启系统变量 `tidb_enable_reuse_chunk` 后可能会出现内存泄露的问题 [#40987](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40987) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 修复了时区争用可能导致数据索引不一致问题 [#40710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40710) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - 修复了 `batch cop` 在执行过程中的 scan detail 信息不准确的问题 [#41582](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41582) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - 修复 `cop` 并发度上限不受限制的问题 [#41134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41134) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - 修复 `cursour read` 中 `statement context` 被错误缓存的问题 [#39998](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39998) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - 周期性清理过时的 Region 缓存以避免内存泄露和性能倒退 [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
    - 修复对包含 `year <cmp> const` 的查询使用 Plan Cache 时可能出错的问题 [#41628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41628) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the `statement context` in `cursour read` is mistakenly cached [#39998](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39998) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `statement context` in `cursor read` is mistakenly cached [#39998](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39998) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
```

>     - Fix the issue that using plan cache on queries that contain `year <cmp> const` might go wrong [#41628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41628) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that using plan cache on queries that contain `year <cmp> const` might get a wrong result [#41626](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41626) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
```

    - 修复 Plan Cache 处理 `int_col in (decimal...)` 条件时可能缓存 FullScan 计划的问题 [#40312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40312) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复 `ignore_plan_cache` hint 对 Insert 语句可能不生效的问题 [#40080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40080) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复 Auto Analyze 可能阻碍 TiDB 退出的问题 [#40284](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40284) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
    - 修复在分区表的 Unsigned Primary Key 上可能构造错误访问区间的问题 [#40313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40313) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复 Plan Cache 可能缓存 Shuffle 算子导致返回错误结果的问题 [#41185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41185) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复在分区表上创建 Global Binding 后可能导致 TiDB 启动错误的问题 [#40402](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40402) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
    - 修复慢日志中查询计划算子可能缺失的问题 [#41461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41461) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - 修复错误下推包含虚拟列的 TopN 算子到 TiKV/TiFlash 导致结果错误的问题 [#41370](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41370) @[Dousir9](https://github.com/Dousir9)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - 修复添加索引时数据不一致的问题 [#40698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40698）[#40730](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40730）[#41459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41459）[#40464](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40464）[#40217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40217）@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复添加索引时 Pessimistic lock not found 的报错问题 [#41515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41515) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复添加唯一索引时误报重复键的问题 [#41630](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41630) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复 TiDB 使用 `paging` 时性能下降的问题 [#40741](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40741) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

```

        - (dup: release-6.1.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that restore is interrupted due to failure in getting the Region size [#36053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36053) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that the frequency of `resolve lock` is too high when there is no PITR backup task in the TiDB cluster [#40759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40759) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
        - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Fix the issue that restoring data to a cluster on which the log backup is running causes the log backup file to be unrecoverable [#40797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40797) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 修复全量备份失败后，从断点重启备份 panic 的问题 [#40704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40704) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - 修复 pitr 错误被覆盖的问题 [#40576](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40576)@[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - 修复 PITR 错误被覆盖的问题 [#40576](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40576)@[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 修复 PITR 备份任务在 advance owner 与 gc owner 不同情况下 checkpoint 不推进的问题 [#41806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41806) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
```

    - 条件优化器在进行越界估算时的策略 [#39011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39011) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

+ TiKV

    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support starting TiKV on a CPU with less than 1 core [#13586](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13586) [#13752](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13752) [#14017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14017) @[andreid-db](https://github.com/andreid-db)
    - 提高unified read pool的线程上限至CPU vCore的10倍 [#13690](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13690) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
    - 延长resolved-ts.advance-ts-interval到20s， 从而节省跨域流量 [#14100](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14100) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Optimize the concurrency of downloading log backup files on the TiKV side to improve the performance of PITR recovery in regular scenarios [#14206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14206) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - The default value of the [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_telemetry-new-in-v402) system variable is changed from `ON` to `OFF`.
    - The default value of the TiDB [`enable-telemetry`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry-new-in-v402) configuration item is changed from `true` to `false`.
    - The default value of the PD [`enable-telemetry`](/pd-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) configuration item is changed from `true` to `false`.

- Starting from v1.11.3, the telemetry feature is disabled by default in newly deployed TiUP, and usage information is not collected. If you upgrade from a TiUP version earlier than v1.11.3 to v1.11.3 or a later version, the telemetry feature keeps the same status as before the upgrade.

- (dup: release-6.1.4.md > Compatibility changes> TiDB)- No longer support modifying column types on partitioned tables because of potential correctness issues [#40620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40620) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- The default value of the TiKV [`advance-ts-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#advance-ts-interval) configuration item is changed from `1s` to `20s`. You can modify this configuration item to reduce the latency and improve the timeliness of the Stale Read data. See [Reduce Stale Read latency](/stale-read.md#reduce-stale-read-latency) for details.
```

> ## 改进提升

Author: ```suggestion
## Improvements
```

+ TiDB

> 

Author: ```suggestion

    - Starting from v6.5.1, TiDB deployed by TiDB Operator v1.4.3 or higher supports IPv6 addresses. This means that TiDB can support a larger address space and bring you better security and network performance.

        - Full IPv6 addressing support: TiDB supports using IPv6 addresses for all network connections, including client connections, internal communication between nodes, and communication with external systems.
        - Dual-stack support: If you are not yet ready to fully switch to IPv6, TiDB also supports dual-stack networks. This means that you can use both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses in the same TiDB cluster and choose a network deployment mode by configuring it to prioritize IPv6.

      For more information on IPv6 deployment, please refer to the [TiDB on Kubernetes User Documentation]().

```

    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > # DB operations)* Support specifying the SQL script executed upon TiDB cluster initialization [#35624](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35624) @[morgo](https://github.com/morgo)

>         When you start a TiDB cluster for the first time, you can specify the SQL script to be executed by configuring the command line parameter `--initialize-sql-file`. You can use this feature when you need to perform such operations as modifying the value of a system variable, creating a user, or granting privileges. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/tidb-configuration-file#initialize-sql-file-new-in-v651).

Author: ```suggestion
        TiDB v6.5.1 adds a new configuration item [`initialize-sql-file`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/tidb-configuration-file#initialize-sql-file-new-in-v651). When you start a TiDB cluster for the first time, you can specify the SQL script to be executed by configuring the command line parameter `--initialize-sql-file`. You can use this feature when you need to perform such operations as modifying the value of a system variable, creating a user, or granting privileges. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/tidb-configuration-file#initialize-sql-file-new-in-v651).
```

    - 改进了 memory tracker 的准确度 [#40900](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40900) [#40500](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40500) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 当 Plan Cache 无法生效时通过 Warning 返回原因 [#40210](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40210) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 条件优化器在进行越界估算时的策略 [#39011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39011) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

+ TiKV

    - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Support starting TiKV on a CPU with less than 1 core [#13586](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13586) [#13752](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13752) [#14017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14017) @[andreid-db](https://github.com/andreid-db)
    - 提高unified read pool的线程上限至CPU vCore的10倍 [#13690](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13690) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
    - 延长resolved-ts.advance-ts-interval到20s， 从而节省跨域流量 [#14100](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14100) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

+ TiFlash

>     - 显著提升 TiFlash 在大数据量下的启动速度 [#6395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6395) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve the TiFlash startup speed greatly under large data volume  [#6395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6395) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)
```

>     - Improve the TiFlash startup speed greatly under large data volume  [#6395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6395) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Improve the TiFlash startup speed greatly under large data volume [#6395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6395) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR))- Optimize the concurrency of downloading log backup files on the TiKV side to improve the performance of PITR recovery in regular scenarios [#14206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14206) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

        - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Support batch `UPDATE` DML statements to improve TiCDC replication performance [#8084](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8084) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
        - (dup: release-6.1.4.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Support storing redo logs to GCS- or Azure-compatible object storage [#7987](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7987) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup: release-6.6.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Implement MQ sink and MySQL sink in the asynchronous mode to improve the sink throughput [#5928](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

> ## 错误修复

Author: ```suggestion
## Bug fixes
```

    - Fix the issue that data race in time zone might cause data-index inconsistency [#40710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40710) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that the scan detail information during the execution of `batch cop` might be inaccurate [#41582](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41582) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the issue that the upper concurrency of `cop` is not limited [#41134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41134) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the issue that the `statement context` in `cursour read` is mistakenly cached [#39998](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39998) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Periodically clean up stale Region cache to avoid memory leak and performance degradation [#40355](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40355) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
    - Fix the issue that using plan cache on queries that contain `year <cmp> const` might go wrong [#41628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41628) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     - 修复查询区间太多且数据改动量大时估算误差可能较大的问题 [#40472](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40472) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
>     - 修复使用 Plan Cache 时部分条件无法被下推过 Join 算子的问题 [#40218](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40218) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复 IndexMerge 计划在 SET 类型列上可能生成错误区间的问题 [#41361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41361) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
>     - 修复 Plan Cache 处理 `int_col <cmp> decimal` 条件时可能缓存 FullScan 计划的问题 [#41136](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41136) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复 Plan Cache 处理 `int_col in (decimal...)` 条件时可能缓存 FullScan 计划的问题 [#40312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40312) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复 `ignore_plan_cache` hint 对 Insert 语句可能不生效的问题 [#40080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40080) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复 Auto Analyze 可能阻碍 TiDB 退出的问题 [#40284](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40284) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
>     - 修复在分区表的 Unsigned Primary Key 上可能构造错误访问区间的问题 [#40313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40313) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
>     - 修复 Plan Cache 可能缓存 Shuffle 算子导致返回错误结果的问题 [#41185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41185) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复在分区表上创建 Global Binding 后可能导致 TiDB 启动错误的问题 [#40402](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40402) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
>     - 修复慢日志中查询计划算子可能缺失的问题 [#41461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41461) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
>     - 修复错误下推包含虚拟列的 TopN 算子到 TiKV/TiFlash 导致结果错误的问题 [#41370](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41370) @[Dousir9](https://github.com/Dousir9)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of large estimation errors when querying with a large range and a large amount of data modification [#40472](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40472) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that some conditions cannot be pushed down through Join operators when using Plan Cache [#40218](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40218) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that IndexMerge plans might generate incorrect intervals on the SET type columns [#41361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41361) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that Plan Cache might cache FullScan plans when processing `int_col <cmp> decimal` conditions [#41136](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41136) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that Plan Cache might cache FullScan plans when processing `int_col in (decimal...)` conditions [#40312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40312) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that the `ignore_plan_cache` hint might not work for INSERT statements [#40080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40080) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that Auto Analyze might hinder TiDB from exiting [#40284](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40284) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
    - Fix the issue that incorrect access intervals might be constructed on Unsigned Primary Keys in partitioned tables [#40313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40313) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that Plan Cache might cache Shuffle operators and return incorrect results [#41185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41185) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that creating Global Binding on partitioned tables might cause TiDB to fail to start [#40402](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40402) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
    - Fix the issue that query plan operators might be missing in slow logs [#41461](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41461) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that incorrect results might be returned when pushing down TopN operators with virtual columns to TiKV/TiFlash [#41370](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41370) @[Dousir9](https://github.com/Dousir9)
```

>     - 修复添加索引时数据不一致的问题 [#40698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40698）[#40730](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40730）[#41459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41459）[#40464](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40464）[#40217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40217）@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复添加索引时 Pessimistic lock not found 的报错问题 [#41515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41515) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复添加唯一索引时误报重复键的问题 [#41630](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41630) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复 TiDB 使用 `paging` 时性能下降的问题 [#40741](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40741) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of inconsistent data when adding indexes [#40698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40698）[#40730](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40730）[#41459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41459）[#40464](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40464）[#40217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40217）@[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue of getting the `Pessimistic lock not found` error when adding indexes [#41515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41515) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue of incorrectly reporting duplicate keys when adding unique indexes [#41630](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41630) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue of performance degradation when using `paging` in TiDB [#40741](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40741) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
```

    - The default value of the [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_telemetry-new-in-v402) system variable is changed from `ON` to `OFF`.
    - The default value of the TiDB [`enable-telemetry`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry-new-in-v402) configuration item is changed from `true` to `false`.
    - The default value of the PD [`enable-telemetry`](/pd-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) configuration item is changed from `true` to `false`.

- Starting from v1.11.3, the telemetry feature is disabled by default in newly deployed TiUP, and usage information is not collected. If you upgrade from a TiUP version earlier than v1.11.3 to v1.11.3 or a later version, the telemetry feature keeps the same status as before the upgrade.

- (dup: release-6.1.4.md > Compatibility changes> TiDB)- No longer support modifying column types on partitioned tables because of potential correctness issues [#40620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40620) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

> - The default value of the TiKV [`advance-ts-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#advance-ts-interval) configuration item is changed from `1s` to `20s`. You can modify this configuration item to reduce the latency and improve the timeliness of the Stale Read data. See [Reduce Stale Read latency](/stale-read.md#reduce-stale-read-latency) for details.

Author: ```suggestion

- The default value of the TiKV [`advance-ts-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#advance-ts-interval) configuration item is changed from `1s` to `20s`. You can modify this configuration item to reduce the latency and improve the timeliness of the Stale Read data. See [Reduce Stale Read latency](/stale-read.md#reduce-stale-read-latency) for details.

```

- The default value of the TiKV [`advance-ts-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#advance-ts-interval) configuration item is changed from `1s` to `20s`. You can modify this configuration item to reduce the latency and improve the timeliness of the Stale Read data. See [Reduce Stale Read latency](/stale-read.md#reduce-stale-read-latency) for details.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Starting from v6.5.1, the TiDB cluster deployed by TiDB Operator v1.4.3 or higher supports IPv6 addresses. This means that TiDB can support a larger address space and bring you better security and network performance.

        - Full support for IPv6 addressing: TiDB supports using IPv6 addresses for all network connections, including client connections, internal communication between nodes, and communication with external systems.
        - Dual-stack support: If you are not ready to fully switch to IPv6 yet, TiDB also supports dual-stack networks. This means that you can use both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses in the same TiDB cluster and choose a network deployment mode that prioritizes IPv6 by configuration.

>       For more information on IPv6 deployment, see [TiDB on Kubernetes documentation]().

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      For more information on IPv6 deployment, see [TiDB on Kubernetes documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/configure-a-tidb-cluster#ipv6-support).
```

    - Improve the optimizer strategy for out-of-range estimation [#39008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39008) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

+ TiKV

    - Support starting TiKV on a CPU with less than 1 core [#13586](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13586) [#13752](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13752) [#14017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14017) @[andreid-db](https://github.com/andreid-db)
    - Increase the thread limit of the Unified Read Pool (`readpool.unified.max-thread-count`) to 10 times the CPU quota, to better handle high-concurrency queries [#13690](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13690) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
    - Change the the default value of `resolved-ts.advance-ts-interval` from `"1s"` to `"20s"`, to reduce cross-region traffic [#14100](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14100) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

+ TiFlash

    - Accelerate TiFlash startup greatly when the data volume is large [#6395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6395) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Optimize the concurrency of downloading log backup files on the TiKV side to improve the performance of PITR recovery in regular scenarios [#14206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14206) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the concurrency of downloading log backup files on the TiKV side to improve the performance of PITR restore in regular scenarios [#14206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14206) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    + TiCDC

>         - Support batch `UPDATE` DML statements to improve TiCDC replication performance [#8084](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8084) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Support batch `UPDATE` DML statements to improve TiCDC replication performance [#8084](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8084) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
        - Enable pull-based sink to optimize system throughput [#8232](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8232) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

>         - Support storing redo logs to GCS- or Azure-compatible object storage [#7987](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7987) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support storing redo logs to GCS-compatible or Azure-compatible object storage [#7987](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7987) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

    - Fix the issue that reading data using the "cursor read" method might return an error because of GC [#39447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39447) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that the `EXECUTE` information is null in the result of `SHOW PROCESSLIST` [#41156](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41156) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that when `globalMemoryControl` is killing a query, the `KILL` operation might not end [#41057](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41057) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic after `indexMerge` encounters an error [#41047](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41047) [#40877](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40877) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue that the `ANALYZE` statement might be terminated by `KILL` [#41825](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41825) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)

>     - Fix the issue that gorountine leak might occur in `indexMerge` [#41545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41545) [#41605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41605) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that goroutine leak might occur in `indexMerge` [#41545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41545) [#41605](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41605) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

    - Fix the issue that PD might unexpectedly add multiple Learners to a Region [#5786](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5786) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)
    - Fix the issue that the Region Scatter task generates redundant replicas unexpectedly [#5909](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5909) @[HundunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)
    - Fix the PD OOM issue that occurs when the calls of `ReportMinResolvedTS` are too frequent [#5965](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5965) @[HundunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)
    - Fix the issue that the Region Scatter might cause uneven distribution of leader [#6017](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6017) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that semi-joins use excessive memory when calculating Cartesian products [#6730](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6730) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash log search is too slow [#6829](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6829) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start due to unexpected removal of files after repeated restarts [#6486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6486) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start because files are mistakenly deleted after repeated restarts [#6486](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6486) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash does not support IPv6 configuration [#6734](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6734) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that the connection failure between PD and tidb-server causes PITR backup progress not to advance [#41082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41082) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot listen to PITR tasks due to the connection failure between PD and TiKV [#14159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14159) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that PITR does not support configuration changes for PD clusters [#14165](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14165) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that the PITR feature does not support CA-bundles [#38775](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38775) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that when a PITR backup task is deleted, the residual backup data causes data inconsistency in new tasks [#40403](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40403) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

>         - Fix the issue that causes panic when BR debugs the `backupmeta` file [#40878](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40878) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that causes panic when BR parses the `backupmeta` file [#40878](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40878) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
```

        - Fix the issue that restore is interrupted due to failure in getting the Region size [#36053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36053) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that the frequency of `resolve lock` is too high when there is no PITR backup task in the TiDB cluster [#40759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40759) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

>         - Fix the issue that restoring data to a cluster on which the log backup is running causes the log backup file to be unrecoverable [#40797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40797) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that restoring data to a cluster on which the log backup is running causes the log backup file unable to be restored [#40797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40797) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

        - Fix the panic issue that occurs when attempting to resume backup from a checkpoint after a full backup failure [#40704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40704) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - 修复 PITR 错误被覆盖的问题 [#40576](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40576)@[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that PITR errors are overwritten [#40576](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40576)@[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

>         - 修复 PITR 备份任务在 advance owner 与 gc owner 不同情况下 checkpoint 不推进的问题 [#41806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41806) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that checkpoints do not advance in PITR backup tasks when the advance owner and gc owner are different [#41806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41806) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
```

        - Fix the issue that `transaction_atomicity` and `protocol` cannot be updated via the configuration file [#7935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7935) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the checkpoint cannot advance when TiCDC replicates an excessively large number of tables [#8004](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8004) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
        - Fix the issue that applying redo log might cause OOM when the replication lag is excessively high [#8085](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8085) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the performance degrades when redo log is enabled to write meta [#8074](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8074) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix a bug that the context deadline is exceeded when TiCDC replicates data without splitting large transactions [#7982](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7982) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>         - Enable pull-based sink to optimize system throughput [#8232](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8232) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

        - Fix the issue that pausing a changefeed when PD is abnormal results in incorrect status [#8330](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8330) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

>         - Fix data inconsistency when replicating to a TiDB or MySQL sink and the column where the non-unique index key without a primary key [#8420](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8420) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the data inconsistency that occurs when replicating to a TiDB or MySQL sink and when `CHARACTER SET` is specified on the column that has the non-null unique index without a primary key [#8420](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8420) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

>         - Fix the panic issue about table scheduling and blackhole sink [#8024](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8024) [#8142](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8142) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the panic issue in table scheduling and blackhole sink [#8024](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8024) [#8142](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8142) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

        - Fix a bug that when the expression filters of both "update" and "non-update" types are specified in one table, all `UPDATE` statements are skipped [#7831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7831) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning prechecks cannot find dirty data left by previously failed imports [#39477](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39477) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning panics in the split-region phase [#40934](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40934) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that the conflict resolution logic (`duplicate-resolution`) might lead to inconsistent checksums [#40657](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40657) @[gozssky](https://github.com/gozssky)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning might incorrectly skip conflict resolution when all but the last TiDB Lightning instance encounters a local duplicate record during a parallel import [#40923](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40923) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

>         - 修复了在使用 Local Backend 模式导入数据时，当导入目标表的复合主键中存在 `auto_random` 列，且源数据中没有指定该列的值时，相关列没有自动生成数据的问题。[#41454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41454) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that when importing data in Local Backend mode, the target columns do not automatically generate data if the compound primary key of the imported target table has an 'auto_random' column and no value for the column is specified in the source data [#41454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41454) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

>         - Fix the issue that when importing data in Local Backend mode, the target columns do not automatically generate data if the compound primary key of the imported target table has an 'auto_random' column and no value for the column is specified in the source data [#41454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41454) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that when importing data in Local Backend mode, the target columns do not automatically generate data if the compound primary key of the imported target table has an `auto_random` column and no value for the column is specified in the source data [#41454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41454) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```
